rather meet me or the game hit it's
either me or the game are you serious
it's even meat or the game so what do
you got to get thrown out yeah nah I'm
not gonna get thrown out but I'm gonna
leave you go the young couple that
you've just seen in the intro to this
video we're going to return to their
story at the very end the final four
minutes of this video will be edited
excerpts showing this young couple
disputing whether or not the young man
will be willing to quit video games in
order to stay with in order to do better
with this relationship with a young
woman I checked their social media as
far as I know they are now preparing to
raise a baby together I do not know if
the young woman was already pregnant at
the time when they recorded this video
following up on my earlier video about
video games I received this broad
question of how does one really know
what is bad and what is good amongst the
things you might do in your spare time
whether that's playing video games or
learning any language I am NOT an
uncritical fan of what's called Socratic
method on the contrary when I first came
on social media one of my punch lines
was hashtag Socratic method is dead I
think in many ways both within academia
and in our you know struggling with
political problems personal
confrontations and disputes in real life
I think there's a sense of which
Socratic method is both extremely
overrated and historically misunderstood
most people don't understand the game
that Socrates was playing how and why he
played that game in his own time in
ancient Athens be that as it may
nevertheless with these sorts of broad
questions of good of asking in our own
lives in direct
what would be good to do it's remarkable
how rarely we really deal with disputes
over the meaning of the word good over
questions of what is good what would be
good if we just engage in a little bit
of Socratic dialogue and I think one
interesting sign of how easy it is to
come into contact with what we mean by
good is that very often we can resolve a
dispute with someone else just by
reframing the question not in terms of
what they would like to do themselves
not in terms of their self-interest not
in terms of what would be good for me or
for you but if just putting in one stage
of detachment and asking them what would
be good for their own son what would be
good for their own daughter it's a more
powerful question partly because there's
a degree of detachment there but also
because very often we love our own
children more than we love ourselves we
care more about the goodness of what our
children do with their time and do with
their lives more than we care about what
we might do ourselves I knew a man I'm
going to tell the story very briefly
because I've mentioned it on YouTube
before I knew a man who worked in a
slaughterhouse for several years I don't
know how many years and he was full of
excuses and rationalization that working
in a slaughterhouse was perfectly good
that it was a good job that he wasn't
ashamed of it that he didn't feel
traumatized by it you know seeing the
animals being chopped up by machines
hearing their screams seeing the blood
smelling the corpses most people who
even visit slaughterhouses are really
struck by these things the sight the
smell the experience so on and so forth
but there's a certain visceral level on
which many people who work in
slaughterhouses will admit its
horrifying
or will admit that it's a strain on them
shall we say they will admit that it is
bad but this guy was talking to
he insisted that it was good and that
there was nothing bad about it and that
he didn't regret working in a
slaughterhouse and he said that he would
be happy to go back and resume that job
in the future he would take the same job
again and yet his whole attitude his
whole demeanor changed my said to him so
what about your own daughter would you
be pleased would you accept it if your
daughter grew up to do the same job you
did in that same source and he sat there
and he shuddered looking straight ahead
breaking away from eye contact with me
he didn't want looking eyes and I could
see he was saddened and disgusted just
imagining his own daughter working in
that Sadr knows what's what's going on
there what's going on for him
psychologically morally and ethically
that guy I think he basically thought of
himself as a bad person I think he
basically thought of himself as a piece
of crap and there's no doubt he was
comfortable feeling that someone like
him that he himself was not too good to
work in a slaughterhouse he thought of
himself as a rough and worthless
knockabout character and I think he
thought of himself as a tough guy he did
not want to think of his own daughter in
any of these ways I've met I'd met his
daughter I think he wanted to imagine
that his daughter could do something
better with her life that his daughter
could be a good person I think he wanted
to imagine that his daughter was too
good to do that job and of course he
could imagine in terms of his daughter
being a very sensitive child he could
imagine how the horrific and horrendous
nature of working in a slaughterhouse
might really change her as a person okay
implicitly the excuses that he was
making for himself working at a
slaughterhouse he would not make those
same excuses for his own daughter
likewise people seem to make a lot of
excuses for playing video games
themselves but if you refer to their own
son or their own daughter what would be
good for your own child's future would
you approve if your own son played video
games for six hours a day will you be
okay with your own daughter playing
video games for six hours a day if we
start to frame it that way then it seems
to give us just enough detachment that
we can see clearly oh no wait if my son
or daughter were playing video games the
same way that maybe these individuals
make excuses for themselves claim
viewings that would be a bad thing
for their future that would not be good
at all it would be a bad thing for who
they are as people so in this question
you say it might be very interesting to
have a conversation with someone who was
so alien from you and I morally that
they really genuinely didn't know
whether or not it was a good thing to
learn a language in your spare time as
opposed to playing games if they
genuinely in an open-minded way they
really didn't know what was a better use
of their their child's time let's say
like do you think it would be better for
your son or your daughter to go and take
lessons and learn Chinese as opposed to
spending the same amount of time let's
say three hours per day playing video
games I've never met anyone from any
culture who genuinely would not know or
would feel some doubt in comparing those
two things who like who just wouldn't be
able to discern which one was good and
which one was bad or of the two
alternatives which one was better now
these things are are culturally loaded
they rely on cultural knowledge i've
lived in some places where i was
surrounded by kind of illiterate farmers
and so on
be good or bad for you or for your son
or daughter to learn Latin the Latin
language I think some people already
have a level of cultural familiarity
with Latin and why it is important like
why the literature is important why the
politics and history and philosophy are
important but also maybe linguistically
that learning Latin can actually improve
your ability to use the English language
and it can improve your ability to learn
other languages like French and Spanish
and so on that you know Latin is useful
and it's valued culture noise some
people culturally would right away be
able to say oh yes learning Latin is
rewarding and important and good it's
good for you it's gonna help you become
a better person and they valorize that
culture they have no question maybe
someone is you know so ignorant and so
divorced from that culture that they
couldn't appreciate that and they might
genuinely think that playing video games
for 3 hours a day would be better than
learning Latin for 3 hours a day try to
imagine who that person might be like
okay even if we go to Japan and we meet
a farmer in Japan let's say it's a
bamboo shoot' farmer in Japan and this
guy is just not an intellectual and
you've been his whole life he works on
this bamboo farm and you say to him well
you know what what do you think would be
better for your own son or daughter I
noticed you have a son or daughter who's
now playing video games with us today do
you think it would be better if they
started learning Latin so culturally
totally healing from Japan if you just
had a very brief conversation about what
Latin is and why it matters Oh what's
this ancient language and there's this
literature in history and you know it's
influential in these different ways and
helps you I have difficulty even
imagining an illiterate Japanese bamboo
farmer who wouldn't be able to
appreciate or discern that something as
alien
as learning Latin would be good it would
be better for who his son is who his
daughter's for the type of person that
it would benefit them that it would be a
good use of their time compared to
sitting and staring at a glowing screen
and pressing buttons on a control pad to
simulate the action of shooting your
enemies in the head again and again and
again killing people with the press of a
button through a crosshairs and watching
their bodies explode the type of
repetitive mildly violent simulated
activity that these video games seem to
offer for people's gratification again
again for that same period of three
hours a day okay so when we're talking
about video games we are talking about
something so self-evidently bad that
almost any of these comparisons I'm
being asked about here and I think the
person asking is sincere it seems to be
impossible to really entertain this kind
of debate in a sincere way I mean you're
asking me is it really better or worse
to spend your spare time playing video
games as opposed to writing okay so you
know me do you think I would be better
we could do this as Abed what if I took
just two weeks or every day for three
hours a day I write my own autobiography
I write the story of my life or three
hours a day i play the most popular
video game on the internet right now I
believe that's fortnight having Google
you could you know obviously okay it
doesn't matter fortnight or the current
Super Mario Brothers game on Nintendo
switch yeah we could I could go I have
the money I can go buy a Nintendo switch
and start playing the new Mario game
okay what would be better for just two
weeks three hours a day writing my
autobiography or I don't think that
highly of the value of writing my own I
don't
I don't think that's right I mean it's
much more difficult to say what would be
better to learn Latin or write my
autobiography or learn Chinese or learn
Latin those are difficult those are
difficult compared isn't playing video
games versus writing ok theater poetry
going to a museum walking in nature
reading literature learning a language
you're seriously asking me to compare
these two playing videos you're
seriously asking me which one is good ok
working in a slaughterhouse is so awful
it's so revolting it's so brutalizing
it's so disgusting that almost nobody
really sincerely wants to reflect on how
good or how bad it is compared to
working in a library I'm not gonna
glorify working in a library most your
time working in a library you're just
putting books on shelves you're sweeping
the floor you're doing customer service
working in a library is not terribly
meaningful however working in a library
versus working in a slaughterhouse
engaging in Socratic method it just
seems like there is no possible debate
to be had about what is good here we're
not going to enter into a profound
reflection on the meaning of good or
what it is to have a meaningful life
alright and we're in this same bleak
realm of self-evident self-destructive
behaviors when we look at the prospect
of spending 3 hours a day playing video
games compared to almost anything else
including including taking care of the
ones you love including having sex with
making love to your wife your girlfriend
caring for waking up in the morning
making pancakes for the woman who is in
this example pregnant with your child
all day all the time you got up when you
want to go get the food
and look see your [ __ ] lazy eyes it's
been here for like once again you see
how to put your Apple on Apple stick
whatever I got that yesterday you hadn't
even talked to me the only time you talk
to me is when the game is over and you
only got a little bit of time she can go
on to the next game
lying ain't nobody lying down here like
you really been on like him all day I'm
trying every time I wake up I can't ever
wake up next to you because your eyes
it's always on the game do something
else for them it's productive when you
wake up give me an for W me something
eat wake me up to [ __ ] breakfast in
bed I always gotta tell you're hungry in
some pancake mix I don't care you only
having get some you always take some
awesome Peggy we ain't got no pancake
good you know I like pancake all that
while goes into the game all this mind
goes into that game yeah oh what'd you
think of is about the game my mind is
not on me all the time
yes it is you don't even get up to clean
oh no I gotta wake up and clean up all
the time I gotta wake up and do
everything that you made a mess what am
I supposed to do is sit down and look at
the wall get on my phone the fungus
boring okay you can do other productive
things what does the game have to do
with anything it's a video game
everybody plays a game nobody else
people complaining about they [ __ ]
playing a game razn okay females don't
let you compare me to other female oh
they don't do this and that they don't
do that don't just saying there's no
reason to complain about a game I'm not
doing that
okay not the game - the initial axes got
purpose you you know the games I might
in turn it off
stop I literally have a dope-ass loadout
in this game right now and they're meet
me or the game
it's either me or the game are you
serious
it's even a meet or the game I'm not
jealous I mean I'm you don't talk to me
no more
that game makes you jealous yeah you
don't spend time with me no more like
you used to
you don't talk to mr. - that wake up I
have to say some because your your
[ __ ] eyes are right in the [ __ ]
game all the time so you're making me
choose you yeah game though the game out
or just make me get out and I leave so
one of them got money you gotta get
thrown out
yeah nah I'm not gonna get thrown out
but I'm gonna leave are you gonna go
don't worry isn't me or the game period
you know I'm gonna choose you over a
game but that doesn't make no sense why
am i throwing the game out because
you're jealous of a game okay I'll do it
up don't transmit right here you want to
give me a little bit of time like I just
can't go without I don't get her before
I break you so first you said throw it
out and now you're gonna break it
yeah because you're not willing it I
just bought a new gaming headset
go ahead so I gotta choose the game over
you Oh
Here I am happy when I played the game
but I'm also happy when I'm with you you
really have to think about that I'm
playing I just told you I choose you